## Labor and Creative Production

In the foreseeable future, [economists](https://www.brookings.edu/articles/unleashing-possibilities-ignoring-risks-why-we-need-tools-to-manage-ais-impact-on-jobs/) predict that AI will displace workers in the working and middle class, particularly those who perform routine language-based tasks. The most threatened [occupations](https://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Jobs_of_Tomorrow_Generative_AI_2023.pdf) (with the highest risk of decline at the hands of automation) include bank tellers, bookkeeping clerks, and legal secretaries. Those impacted by automation will most likely include people from a wide range of racial/ethnic backgrounds, but as a child of immigrants myself, I think of those who are new to American culture and are trying to learn English to get a more-or-less stable job that can support their families. Or how about those who were born in the United States but cannot rely on their family's human capital - because they are the first to attain it- so they try to "get their foot in the door" by applying to be a data entry clerk at the company they dream of working at? 

In the event that they lose their jobs, there must be some sort of guard rail that protects them from being completely unable to support their families (this would be a great opportunity for some sort of universal income). Even more optimistically, upskilling programs or incentives could be offered to people in these higher-risk occupations if their companies would like to keep them on-board. Financially, this could make sense given that organizations would save money with automation, and could re-invest it into nurturing the talent of their staff. However, the further concentration of power among those at the helm of how this AI phenomenon unfolds remains as probably the most uncertain aspect. Will they choose the value of human labor over enormous financial gain? Will they choose transparency only if their financials gains are threatened? What would it take for people looking to climb the socioeconomic ladder to not be left behind? 
